# Create a Company Level Form Template

Source: https://v2.support.procore.com/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/create-a-company-level-form-template

---

## Background

Creating custom form templates at the Company level allows users to easily use the same form templates across multiple projects without having to upload the templates separately to each project. Users can upload fillable PDFs for team members to fill out and store on the Project level Forms tool.

#####  Important

Avoid uploading custom form templates that contain JavaScript and other formulas.

## Things to Consider

- **Required User Permissions**:

 - 'Admin' on the Company level Admin tool.
- **Requirements**:

 - Custom form templates must have the PDF file name extension and be converted to a fillable PDF Form. See [What is a fillable PDF?](/faq-what-is-a-fillable-pdf) and [How do I create a fillable PDF?](https://support.procore.com/faq/how-do-i-create-a-fillable-pdf) *Note*: XFA-based PDFs are only compatible with Adobe software. See [What file types does the Forms tool support?](/faq-what-file-types-does-the-forms-tool-support)
- **Additional Information**:

 - Form templates added at the Company level will be automatically available on all projects with the Forms tool.
 - If you intend to use signature fields in your fillable PDFs, please note that any signature fields must be added manually when preparing the fillable PDF. If the signature fields are automatically generated by your chosen software, they may not be interpreted as signature fields by third-party apps such as Procore.\* *Note:* When preparing a fillable PDF with Adobe Acrobat, leave the option 'This document requires signatures' unmarked.

## Steps

1. Navigate to the Company level **Admin** tool.
2. Under 'Tool Settings', click **Forms**.
3. Click**Form Template.**
4. Enter the following fields. Required fields have an \* asterisk:

   - **Title\***: Enter a name for the form. The template's title will be included on any form created from the template and will be searchable in the project's Forms tool.
   - **Description**: *Optional:* Enter a brief description that outlines the purpose, content, and/or audience of this form.
   - **Form PDF\***: Add a fillable PDF to use for the form template. Do one of the following:

     - Click **Attach File** and select **Upload a file from your computer** or **Select a file from** **Procore**.
     - Drag and drop the fillable PDF from your computer into the gray box.
5. Click **Create Template**.

## Next Steps

- [Fill Out a Form](/product-manuals/forms-project/tutorials/fill-out-a-form)
- [Fill out a Form (iOS)](/product-manuals/forms-ios/tutorials/fill-out-a-form-ios)
- [Fill out a Form (Android)](/product-manuals/forms-android/tutorials/fill-out-a-form-android)