# Set the Defaults for Your Projects

Source: https://v2.support.procore.com/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/set-the-defaults-for-your-projects

---

## Background

The controls in the Project Settings page in the Company level Admin tool give you the ability to configure a variety of settings for your company account's Procore projects.

## Things to Consider

- **Required User Permissions**:

 - 'Admin' level permissions on the Company Admin tool.

## Steps

1. Navigate to the company's **Admin** tool.
2. Under 'Project Settings', click **Defaults.**
3. Click **Create** in each section to create the following :

   1. **Project Stages.** See [Add a Custom Project Stage](/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/add-a-custom-project-stage).
   2. **Project Types.** See [Add a Custom Project Type](/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/add-a-custom-project-type).
   3. **Departments**. See [Add a Custom Department](/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/add-a-custom-department).
   4. **Programs**. See [Add a Custom Program](/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/add-a-custom-program).
   5. **Bid Types**. See [Add a Custom Bid Type](/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/add-a-custom-bid-type).
   6. **Owner Types**. See [Add Custom Owner Types](/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/add-a-custom-owner-type).
   7. **Regions**. To learn more, see [Add a Custom Project Region](/product-manuals/admin-company/tutorials/add-a-custom-project-region).
4. Under 'Advanced Settings', select or clear the following checkboxes:

   - **For New Projects, Show Line Items on Change Order PDFs**. Place a mark in this checkbox, if you want Procore to automatically show line items of PDFs generated by the Change Orders tool (see [Create a PDF of a Change Order](/product-manuals/change-orders-project/tutorials/export-a-change-order)). Note that for new projects, if the template project has this setting disabled, but the Company setting is enabled, the project template setting will be used for the new project.

     For New Projects, Show Line Items on Change Order PDFs
   - **Include Store Number and Designated Market Area**. Place a mark in this checkbox, if desired. By default, the checkmark is cleared from this box.

     Include Store Number and Designated Market Area
   - **Enable Docusign**: Mark this box to enable Docusign on all of your company's projects (new and existing). 
     *Note:* For new projects created from templates, the project template's Docusign setting will be used for the new project.
   - **Prevent Overbilling on All Projects.** Mark this checkbox if you want to prevent commitment line item overbilling on subcontractor invoices.

     #####  Note

     - This setting only applies to subcontractor invoices. It does NOT apply to owner invoices.
     - When this setting is enabled, it overrides any settings on the project's Commitments tool. See [How do I prevent or allow overbilling on a subcontractor invoice?](/faq-how-do-i-prevent-or-allow-overbilling-on-a-subcontractor-invoice)

- Click **Save Changes**.