# Fix issues with multi-factor authentication

Source: https://central.xero.com/s/article/Troubleshoot-multi-factor-authentication

---

## Overview

- Fix a problem setting up or logging in with multi-factor authentication (MFA).
- Understand how to use QR codes and authenticator apps.
- What to do if you lose your authentication device or are locked out of Xero.

Tip

We recommend trying the troubleshooting steps in this support article before you [get in touch](https://central.xero.com/s/contact-support-mfa?userregion=true) with Xero support.

Fix a problem setting up MFA

### You don’t have a smartphone or tablet

If you don’t have a smartphone or tablet, you can [install an authenticator app on your laptop or desktop computer](Set-up-multi-factor-authentication.md).

### You can't download Xero Verify

Check your device's operating system. To use Xero Verify, it needs to be iOS 13.0 or Android 5.0, or later.

### You’ve changed the device you use to authenticate

If you're logged into Xero, you can change devices in your account settings. If not, you'll need to use a backup method. Find out more about how to [change the device you use for MFA](Use-multi-factor-authentication-on-a-new-device.md).

### You don't receive an email with a confirmation code

After you add a backup email address, Xero sends you an email containing a code to confirm your address. If you don't receive an email, try these fixes:

- Check you entered the right email address. If not, click **Entered the wrong email address?** and enter the right one.
- Check you’re in the right email account.
- See if the email went to your spam folder.
- Wait a couple of minutes, then refresh your email inbox.

### Confirmation code isn’t accepted

If Xero doesn’t accept the confirmation code you’ve entered, it might be because too much time has passed since you started setting up MFA. To fix, you can:

- Start the set-up process again
- Generate a new email by clicking **Entered the wrong email address?**

Fix a problem logging in with MFA

### You’re redirected back to the login screen

If you get an error message saying your multi-factor authentication login didn’t work, try logging in again.

If that doesn’t fix the problem, check our [System Status page](https://status.xero.com/) (Xero website) to see if Xero is experiencing any system issues.

### You don’t have access to your authenticator app

You can still log in using MFA if you don’t have access to the device with your authenticator app on it.

When prompted to respond to a push notification or enter a code, click **Use a backup method instead**. Use your backup email or answer your security questions.

### You didn’t receive a push notification on Xero Verify

A push notification can take up to 15 seconds to come through. If you can’t see it after that, try these fixes:

- Check your device is connected to the internet. If you can’t connect, you can use a code or your backup method to authenticate instead.
- Check your device settings to make sure notifications are turned on for your device and Xero Verify.
- If your device is set to ‘Do not disturb’, turn that function off.
- If you're using iOS 15 on an Apple device, ensure the Xero Verify app is marked as **Time Sensitive** for each of your **Focus** modes. If it's not, you can change it in your device's **Settings** under **Focus**.
- Fully close, quit and reopen the Xero Verify app. Click **Resend Notification** on your computer.
- If you still can’t see the push notification, click **Use a backup method instead** to log in to Xero.
- Once you’ve logged in, check you’ve set up Xero Verify to work with push notifications. Click your initials or profile image at the top of the screen, then select **Account**. If it’s set up correctly, you’ll see **Push notifications** under **Authentication method**. Otherwise click **Change** to set up push notifications.

### You missed the push notification prompt

If you weren’t able to verify your login before the push notification prompt disappeared, swipe down from the top of the screen on your mobile device to find the verification prompt again. Tap on the notification and then tap **Yes it’s me** to confirm it’s you logging in.

If you can’t see the message on your notification list, click **Resend notification** on your Xero login screen to receive the push notification on your mobile device again.

Alternatively, on your Xero login screen click **Use a backup method instead** to authenticate your login using a 6-digit code or backup email address.

### Login request denied

If the Xero login screen shows the message **Your login request has been denied**, you might have accidentally tapped ‘no’ on the push notification.

To fix, click **Log in** and try again.

### Authentication code not working

If the authentication code generated by your app isn’t working, check you entered it correctly, and that you’re entering the latest code. For security reasons, apps generate new codes every 30 seconds.

Even though your authenticator app might show a space after the first three digits of the code, enter the code without the space.

If you're using an app other than Xero Verify, the codes will be time-based. To ensure the time on the device your authenticator app is installed on is accurate, let your network provider automatically set the time.

Once you've entered the code and logged in to Xero, you can close the authenticator app. You don't need to delete it.

You can avoid problems with time-based codes by [switching to Xero Verify](Manage-multi-factor-authentication.md). It's also the only app that lets you use push notifications for quick and easy authentication in Xero.

### You didn’t receive a verification email

If you use your backup email to authenticate your Xero login, you should receive an email from Xero containing a verification code. If you didn’t receive the email, try these fixes:

- Check you’re in the right email account.
- See if the email went to your spam folder.
- Wait a couple of minutes, then refresh your email inbox.

### Your security question answers aren’t accepted

If you have trouble answering your security questions to authenticate your Xero login, try entering your answers again. You might have entered the wrong answer.

You can [change your backup method](Manage-multi-factor-authentication.md) to using a backup email instead.

### ‘Trust this device’ feature isn’t working

When you log in to Xero, you can select a box to skip the authenticate step for up to 30 days. The **Trust this device** feature is only available if you log in using an authenticator app on a device such as a smartphone or desktop computer.

It isn't designed to work if you're logging in using a backup method, as these methods should only be used if you can't access your authenticator app.

It’s important that each user has their own Xero login credentials and sets up MFA for that login. You should never use a shared login and you can’t set up MFA for an organisation or practice.

The **Trust this device** feature is also linked to the specific computer and browser you were using when you selected the box. You’ll need to authenticate if:

- You’re using a different browser or computer
- You’ve cleared cookies from your browser, or cookies aren't enabled
- You’ve turned on private browsing
- You’re using a different internet connection
- Another user has logged in on the same computer using the same browser

Fix problems with QR code

### QR code doesn’t work

If the QR code isn’t accepted, or you can’t click **Continue** or **Enter** code after scanning the QR code, try one of these fixes:

- Make sure you're scanning the QR code from within your authenticator app, not using your phone's camera.
- Try rescanning the QR code.
- Click **Enter a setup key** instead.
- Check you’ve got internet access.
- Start the set-up process again.

### Can’t find the QR code or setup key

The QR code or setup key is only shown when you’re setting up MFA.

If you lose your phone, or the device which has your authenticator app on it after you’ve set up MFA, you’ll need to [set up MFA on your new device](Use-multi-factor-authentication-on-a-new-device.md).

During setup, Xero generates a new QR code or setup key to enter into your authentication app.

Lost your authentication device

If you lose your phone or device that has your authenticator app on it, we recommend you change your Xero login password. If you use security questions as your backup authentication method, you might also want to [change your security questions](Manage-multi-factor-authentication.md).

When you get a new device, [set it up with MFA](Use-multi-factor-authentication-on-a-new-device.md). If MFA is mandatory for you, you'll need to do this before you use Xero. You can use your backup authentication method to log in to Xero until you're all set up. If you don't yet have a new device, find out how to [set up MFA without a smartphone or tablet](Set-up-multi-factor-authentication.md).

Locked out of Xero

To stop unauthorised access to your account, we’ll lock it after five unsuccessful login attempts, including MFA attempts. Wait 15 minutes then try logging in again.

If you can’t get past the first login stage using your email address and password, [find out what you need to do](Can-t-log-into-Xero.md).

If you can’t log in after entering your email address and password, and you’ve tried the troubleshooting steps, contact us to reset MFA. You’ll need to:

- Have made a number of attempts to log in using your MFA backup method. When prompted to respond to a push notification or enter a code, click **Use a backup method instead**.
- Make sure you enter your Xero user email address on the contact form.
- Prove you're the owner of the account. This is necessary to ensure there's no unauthorised access.

We can only reset MFA for your account, not another user’s account.

## What's next?

Tried our troubleshooting steps and still having problems? [Contact us](https://central.xero.com/s/contact-support-mfa?userregion=true) to reset your MFA.