# About find and recode

Source: https://central.xero.com/s/article/About-Find-Recode

---

## Overview

- Find and recode multiple transaction lines in bulk by recoding the source transaction or using a manual journal.

Warning

Only use find and recode if you're an accountant or bookkeeper, or have experience with recoding. Recoding can result in significant changes to accounts and reports.

What you need to know

Tip

If you can’t access find and recode, [check your user role](Change-a-user-s-role-or-permissions.md). You need the advisor user role to use find and recode.

### How it works

Find and recode works by searching for a group of transactions that meet the conditions you enter. You can then make changes to some of the transaction details on the results.

Common scenarios where you might want to recode include, but aren't limited to:

- Changing the account code or tax rate
- Cleaning up contacts when there are variations of a contact name
- Combining accounts
- Adding or changing tracking categories

You can use one of two methods to recode transactions:

- **Recode source transactions** – Xero updates the original transaction.
- **Recode with a manual journal** – Xero creates a draft journal for you to post and adds a note to the transaction to reference the new manual journal. The original transaction always shows the original details.

Find and recode makes changes to individual transaction lines, not the entire transaction. Once you’ve recoded a transaction line, it can’t be undone. To reverse the changes, you need to recode the transaction line again or edit the individual transaction.

When you recode an invoice or bill that’s generated by a repeating invoice or bill, the template isn’t affected by the recode.

When you recode the tax rate, the line total remains the same. The unit amount changes in proportion to the new tax amount.

Recoding can take several minutes to process. We recommend waiting until it’s completed before you recode more transaction lines.

Frequently recoding large batches can also impact the performance of reports. We recommend only one advisor at a time in your organisation should use find and recode. They should recode no more than 200 transaction lines at a time.

### Find and recode restrictions

- Some [system accounts](Locked-and-system-accounts-in-your-chart-of-accounts.md) can't be recoded. These include accounts receivable, accounts payable, unpaid expense claims, tracking transfers, bank revaluations, unrealised currency gains, bank accounts, fixed assets and tracked inventory.
- You can't recode a contact through a manual journal, you need to recode the source transaction.
- You can't search for archived contacts.
- You can’t search for or recode lines on bills, supplier credit notes and spend money transactions that use tracked inventory (account type = inventory).
- You can only recode transactions entered in a foreign currency using the source transaction option.

Supported and excluded transactions

You can search for and recode the following transactions:

| Transaction type | Transaction status | Transaction abbreviation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Spend and receive money | Reconciled, unreconciled and marked as reconciled. | SM/RM |
| Prepayments (bills and invoices) | Unpaid, paid, reconciled and unreconciled. | PR |
| Expense claims | Awaiting payment, paid and archived. | EC |
| Sales invoices, repeating invoices and credit notes | All – draft, awaiting approval, awaiting payment and paid. | AR/CR |
| Purchase bills, repeating bills, bill credit notes | All – draft, awaiting approval, awaiting payment and paid. | AP/CR |
| Manual journals | Draft and posted. You can also search for archived journals but you can't recode them. | MJ |

You can’t search for or recode the following transactions:

- Fixed assets
- Purchase orders or quotes
- Bank transfers or overpayments
- Voided transactions
- Any line of a purchase transaction that contains tracked inventory (account type = inventory)

Search conditions

You can search for transaction lines that match or exclude one or more of the following conditions.

| Category | Search Conditions |
| --- | --- |
| Type | You can search all supported transaction types. |
| Status | You can search all transactions with the status **Draft**, **Awaiting Approval**, **Awaiting Payment** or **Paid**. When you search for an awaiting payment transaction, the search results include transaction lines for spend money and receive money transactions. |
| Account | You can't search accounts receivable, accounts payable, unpaid expense claims, tracking transfers, bank revaluations, unrealised currency gains, bank accounts, fixed assets, tracked inventory accounts or archived accounts. |
| Bank Account | You can select one or more bank accounts that contain the transaction lines. |
| Reconciled Between | You can select a date range to find transaction lines that were reconciled within the two dates. |
| Date | You can search transaction lines created on a specific date or within a certain date range. You can't search for transaction lines created prior to a lock date, unless a [lock date was set](Set-up-and-work-with-lock-dates.md) for all users except advisors. |
| Transaction total | You can search amounts equal to, less than or more than a specific transaction total. |
| Tax rate | You can search all active and archived tax rates. |
| Entered by | You can search the user that created the transaction. |
| Contact | You can search active contacts but not archived contacts. |
| Invoice Number / Reference | You can search the specific invoice number or reference of an invoice or bill. |
| Tracking | You can search for transaction lines that have or haven’t been assigned a [tracking category](Rename-delete-or-restore-tracking-categories.md). |

## What's next?

Now you know how find and recode works, use it to [recode a group of transaction lines](Find-Recode-a-group-of-transaction-lines.md).