# Keep your Xero account safe

Source: https://central.xero.com/s/article/Keep-your-Xero-account-safe

---

## Overview

- To minimise the risk of fraud or identity theft, make sure your login is secure.
- Know how to recognise fraudulent websites and emails.

What you need to know

Your Xero organisation contains lots of sensitive data, both personal and business.

- Personal data includes supplier and customer information, personal identification numbers, salary and wage information.
- Business data includes financial data, bank account numbers and tax numbers.

[Security is a priority at Xero](https://www.xero.com/about/security/) (Xero website), but it’s also important you take steps to safeguard your data.

If you think you’re the victim of a phishing email or fraudulent activity relating to your Xero account, contact Xero support immediately.

If you think your login details are known by someone else, [change them as soon as possible](Change-Xero-login-password-or-email.md).

Make sure your login is secure

Tip

We recommend you [enable single sign on (SSO)](Set-up-Single-Sign-On-for-Hubdoc-and-Xero.md) so you can log in to Hubdoc with your Xero credentials.

### Create a strong password

You identify yourself when you enter your email address and password to gain access to the data stored in your Xero organisation.

When you log in to Xero, check that the website in the address bar displays the padlock symbol. The padlock indicates that your username and password are encrypted.

To ensure your password can’t be cracked or guessed, it should be:

- More than 10 characters long
- A mixture of upper case letters, lower cases letters, numbers and special characters
- Different from your other passwords
- Unrelated to your personal life – don’t use the name of your pet or child

To create a password that’s secure but not easily forgotten you can use a passphrase, a sequence of words that you can remember but is hard for someone else to guess.

Password managers are also very useful in letting you use multiple strong passwords. You only need to remember one password to access the manager, which securely stores all your usernames and passwords.

### Don't share passwords or use shared login accounts

Never let anybody else know your password, even when you need help with a problem.

- Each user in your organisation should have their own account so there's an audit trail of access and data changes. This is in line with [Xero’s terms of use](https://www.xero.com/about/legal/terms/) (Xero website).
- We'll never ask for your login details. If we need access to your Xero organisation, we’ll ask you to [add Xero Support as a user](Invite-or-remove-Xero-Support-from-your-organisation.md).
- If your accountant or bookkeeper needs access to your Xero organisation, [invite them in as a user](Add-a-new-user-to-your-organisation.md) under their own login.

### Set up multi-factor authentication

We recommend you add a second layer of security to your Xero account by setting up [multi-factor authentication (MFA)](Multi-factor-authentication-explained.md). You need to set up MFA using your own Xero login details.

When you log in to Xero, you enter your email address and password. Xero then prompts you to authenticate using an authenticator app.

Depending on the app you use, you either authenticate by using a push notification or by entering a code generated by the app. You can use a backup method if necessary.

Even if someone knows your password, they can’t access your Xero organisation without also having access to your phone or backup method.

Hubdoc has its own authentication called two-factor authentication (2FA). If you have a Hubdoc organisation, we also recommend you [set up 2FA](/s/article/Set-up-two-factor-authentication-for-your-Hubdoc-login?userregion=true) for your Hubdoc login credentials.

With very few exceptions, all users are required to authenticate when they log in.

Be aware of fake support sites

Xero offers comprehensive support to all our users as part of your subscription. If you need help, you can contact us below or from within your organisation or Xero Central.

There are websites out there that pretend to be Xero support but are fraudulent or malicious. It can be hard to tell if a site is fake, but some clues are:

- It lists a phone number you can call for support. We offer online support and we don’t have a support phone number.
- The site charges for support. Xero offers unlimited free support as part of your subscription.
- The site offers support for other products or services unrelated to Xero.
- You’re asked for your login details. We never ask for login details and you should never share them with anyone.

Tip

Use Xero’s [advisor directory](https://www.xero.com/advisors/) to get business and accounting advice from Xero certified accountants and bookkeepers.

Recognise phishing emails

Warning

If you receive a phishing email, don't click any links or attachments and don't reply to the email.

A phishing email looks like it comes from a legitimate source but fraudulently tries to get you to provide sensitive information, such as your password or credit card details. These emails can also try to infect your device by trying to get you to click a link that goes to a malicious website or attachment.

Suspicious messages are sent to Xero and non-Xero customers alike. Scammers have no way of telling who might be a Xero customer. They usually get email lists from the internet and target all email addresses on the list.

Scammers want to avoid raising suspicion, and attempt to make their malicious messages look convincing by:

- Using real company logos and similar visual styles
- Sending from an email address that looks legitimate
- Using names and language that sounds authoritative or demanding

A genuine Xero email will always come from a xero.com address such as @xero.com, @post.xero.com, @identity.post.xero.com or @support.xero.com. However, scammers have tools that allow them to impersonate legitimate domains like ours.

That’s why it’s also important to consider the message's context and content. If you receive an email from Xero that seems unusual or unexpected, Xero’s security noticeboard article lists known phishing emails that use Xero's branding. These emails often pretend to be invoice reminders, billing notifications or verification messages.

If you suspect you’ve received a phishing email pretending to be from Xero, check our [security noticeboard](https://www.xero.com/blog/security-noticeboard/).

## What's next?

For more information about phishing emails and how to avoid being caught, see our [security page](https://www.xero.com/about/security/), or learn how we warn you if we [detect suspicious activity](Unable-to-access-parts-of-Xero.md) on your account.