# Multi-factor authentication explained

Source: https://central.xero.com/s/article/Multi-factor-authentication-explained

---

## Overview

- Multi-factor authentication (MFA) adds a second layer of security to your Xero account.
- Use the Xero Verify app to receive push notifications to your device for quick and easy authentication.

About multi-factor authentication

Multi-factor authentication (MFA) adds a second level of security when you log in to Xero.

Anyone who logs in to Xero and has access to a paying subscription will be prompted to set up MFA. However, if you're trying Xero out on a 30-day trial, or only use Xero portal and Ask portal, you won’t need to set up MFA.

MFA combines something you know (your email address and password) with something you have (an authenticator app on your smartphone or tablet). Authenticator apps are available for smartphones, tablets, laptops and desktop computers.

This extra layer of security is designed to stop anyone else accessing your Xero account, even if they know your password.

In line with [Xero’s terms of use](https://www.xero.com/about/legal/terms/) (Xero website), each person must have their own login. You should set up MFA for your own user account using your Xero login details. You should never share passwords with others.

How it works

When you log in to Xero, you enter your email address and password. Xero then prompts you to authenticate using either push notifications or a code generated by an authenticator app.

If you can’t authenticate using the app, you can use a backup method. You’ll need to enter a code sent to your backup email address or answer your security questions.

Once you've set up MFA, you'll get the option to skip authenticating your login for up to 30 days whenever you login. You can select the **Trust this device** checkbox to skip authenticating. This is linked to the specific computer and browser you’re using. [In some cases](Troubleshoot-multi-factor-authentication.md), you might need to re-authenticate.

Using an authenticator app

You choose and install an authenticator app when you set up MFA.

If you install Xero Verify you can use push notifications, which are quicker and easier than using codes. With push notifications, a message pops up on your smartphone or tablet. You just need to open the notification and tap once to confirm it’s you logging in.

Xero Verify only sends notifications when you're logging in to Xero. It won't send notifications at other times.

If you’re using another app, you can [switch to Xero Verify](Manage-multi-factor-authentication.md) at any time.

We recommend installing an app on a smartphone or tablet, but if you don’t have one, some apps can be installed on a laptop or desktop computer.

The codes generated by authenticator apps are continually updated. If you use an app other than Xero Verify, they’re also time-based. To ensure the time on the device you installed your authenticator app on is accurate, let your network provider set it automatically.

Backup methods

When you set up MFA, Xero asks you to add a backup email address or security questions. These are backup methods that you only need to use if you can’t access your authenticator app.

A backup email address is the easiest option. When you set up MFA, you enter a backup email address – you just need to make sure it’s different to the one you use to log in to Xero. If you ever need to log in to Xero and don’t have access to your authenticator app, just choose the option to enter your backup email address instead.

If you don’t want to use a backup email address as your backup method, you can choose security questions instead. When you set up MFA you choose some security questions from a drop-down list to provide answers to. If you ever need to use a backup method to log in to Xero, just enter the same answers to your security questions.

You can [change your backup method](Manage-multi-factor-authentication.md) at any time.

## What's next?

Find out how to [set up MFA](Set-up-multi-factor-authentication.md) for your Xero login.