# Process a pay for redundancy

Source: https://central.xero.com/s/article/Process-a-final-pay-for-redundancy

---

## Overview

- Set up a redundancy payment pay item to keep it separate from other employee earnings.
- Add the redundancy payment pay item to the unscheduled pay run and adjust the payslip for deductions and contributions.

How it works

- Create a new redundancy payment pay item, then add it in an unscheduled pay run before you pay out the employee’s leave and process their final pay.
- ACC earner’s levy doesn’t apply to redundancy payments. To ensure the payment appears in the correct column for payday filings, update the employee’s tax code to WT in the employee’s payslip. The employee's actual tax code is filed and not the WT tax code.
- If the employee is repaying a student loan, add student loan deductions to the payslip.
- Remove child support deductions from the employee’s payslip, including court fines or Ministry of Social Development repayments.
- Keep Inland Revenue (IR) arrears if these appear on the employee's payslip.

Set up a redundancy payment pay item

1. In the **Payroll** menu, select **Payroll** **settings**.
2. Select the **Pay** **Items** tab.
3. In the **Earnings** tab, click **Add**, then select **Withholding** **Income** or **Discretionary** **Payments**.
4. Name the pay item and complete the other details as needed.
5. Click **Add**.

Process an unscheduled pay for redundancy

### Add the redundancy payment pay item to the employee's payslip

1. In the **Payroll** menu, select **Pay employees**.
2. [Add a new unscheduled pay run](Adjust-previous-payroll-payments.md) or open a draft unscheduled pay run if you’ve already set one up.
3. Select the checkbox next to the employee you want to add to the pay run.
4. Click the employee's name to open their payslip.
5. Reset the amounts for default earnings and other line items to zero.
6. Under **Earnings**, click **Add**, then select the redundancy pay item.
7. Edit the amount owed if necessary, then click **Save**.

### Adjust the employee's tax code, deductions and contributions

1. In the employee's payslip, under **Employee** **Taxes**, click **Edit** **tax** **settings**.
2. Under **Payslip tax code**, select **WT**, then enter a **Payslip tax rate %**. For more information, see [Taxing employee redundancy](https://www.ird.govt.nz/employing-staff/deductions-from-income/taxing-employee-redundancy) (IR website).
3. Click **Apply**.
4. Under **Statutory Deductions**, click **Add**, then select **KiwiSaver Manual Adjustment**.
5. Add a negative amount to cancel out the employee contribution generated by Xero.
6. Under **Superannuation**, click **Add**, then select **KiwiSaver Manual Adjustment**.
7. Add a negative amount to cancel out the employer contribution generated by Xero.
8. (Optional) To add or remove other statutory deductions, under **Statutory Deductions**, click **Add**, then select the applicable manual adjustment, then enter:
   - A positive amount to add a deduction
   - A negative amount to remove a deduction
9. Under **Other Pay Information**, check **Days Paid** is set to zero.
10. Click **Save & Close**.
11. (Optional) Click the **Memo** button to add a personal message to the employee’s payslip.
12. If you're:
    - Not connected to myIR for Payday filing – click **Post**, then click **Post** again to post the pay run.
    - [Connected to myIR for Payday filing](Set-up-or-reconnect-your-myIR-connection-for-Payday-filing.md) – click **Post and file**, then click **Post** **and** **File** again to post the pay run and submit the payday file to IR.

## What's next?

- Once you've posted the unscheduled pay run, [end the employment with a final pay](Delete-an-employee-and-end-their-employment.md).