# Delete repeating invoice templates

Source: https://central.xero.com/s/article/Delete-repeating-invoice-templates

---

## Overview

- If you delete a repeating invoice template, Xero stops creating new invoices from it.
- Any invoices already generated from the template are unaffected.

## About deleting a repeating invoice template

If you want to permanently stop a repeating invoice template from generating new invoices, delete the repeating template.

If you just want to stop generating repeating invoices temporarily, [add an end date to the template](Add-or-edit-a-repeating-invoice-template.md). To start generating the invoices again, remove the end date.

To delete repeating templates, you need to have the invoice only + sales, invoice only + approve and pay, standard or advisor user role. If you have the invoice only + draft user role, you can delete templates you've created.

## Delete a repeating invoice template

1. In the **Sales** menu, select **Invoices**.
2. Select the **Repeating** tab.
3. Select the checkbox next to the template you want to delete.
4. Click **Delete**.
5. Click **OK** to confirm.

You can also delete a repeating template by opening the template, then clicking **Delete**.

You can open the deleted template from within an invoice generated by it, by clicking the link in the banner to view the repeating template.

## What's next?

Check the **Draft** or **Awaiting Payment** tabs for any invoices generated from the template that you want to [delete](Delete-or-void-a-sales-invoice.md).