# Export a Submittal

Source: https://v2.support.procore.com/product-manuals/submittals-project/tutorials/export-a-submittal

---

## Background

- **PDF with Attachments**. When adding attachments to a submittal, many users upload a variety of materials (e.g., the submittal's cover page, the general contractor's review stamp, and other attachments, such as product specifications, drawings, user manuals, and more). When exporting a submittal, users can combine the submittal cover sheet generated by Procore and other attachments from the submittal into a single PDF. Users can also rearrange these attachments so the files are merged into the PDF in the order they specify. This saves users a number of extra steps that would be taken to manually assemble PDFs using a third-party PDF software. Users can alternatively combine their selected attachments into a ZIP file.

## Things to Consider

- **Required User Permissions:**

  - 'Read Only' level permissions or higher on the project's Submittals tool.
- **Additional Information:**

  - The maximum number of file attachments that you can select to export in a single PDF is forty (40) attachments.

## Steps

1. Navigate to the project's **Submittals** tool.
2. Locate the desired submittal and click **View**.
3. Click **Export**.
4. Choose one of the following options:

   - **PDF**. Select this option to generate a PDF summary of the submittal. The PDF will open in a separate tab in your web browser.
   - **Zip**. Select this option to export a PDF that combines one or more attachments from the submittal.

     - Mark the checkboxes next to the files you want to combine together or check the box next to **Attachments** to select all. *Note*: You can only add up to 40 attachments.
     - Rearrange the files by clicking the vertical grip (⋮⋮) icons and using a drag-and-drop operation.
     - Click **Single PDF** or **.zip**.

A 'Success' banner displays to confirm the export has started. The system will send you an email to notify you when the export is complete and will include a link to the exported file.